---
layout: single
title:  'Mayukh Das: "Human-Allied Problem Solving and Planning"'
date:   2018-02-20 15:46:00 -0600
categories: research-highlights
author: Mayukh Das
---

Knowledge-augmented approaches to sequential decision-making try to alleviate the limitations of data-driven techniques caused by noise, stochasticity and asymmetry of knowledge. They leverage rich knowledge assimilated by domain experts through years of experience to learn better behaviour. Recent years have witnessed a major research thrust in this direction and our group is an active contributor to this cause; focused on building human-in-the-loop frameworks for representation and elicitation of knowledge from, potentially multiple, expert(s) for sequential decision-making (RL), planning and prediction.

My research focuses on real-time/active elicitation of human knowledge, at varying levels of generality, for guided planning and problem-solving. Specifically, we address 'asymmetry of knowledge' where an AI planning system may have access to certain resources and vast computational power but may lack the necessary knowledge to prioritize among critical tasks. Human experts understand such priorities implicitly and we leverage that to generate better plans. Our DARPA-funded project "Communicating with Computers" has motivated research towards human-AI collaborative planning systems where both humans and AI agents solve problems together and learn from each other. Humans will teach new concepts, the agents will seek guidance when uncertain, and both will grow to augment one another. Part of my research also involves scaling Probabilistic Logic Models via approximation.

As we create more sophisticated decision-making machines that can solve problems and learn from observations in a noisy, dynamic, and stochastic world; we want to augment or support human effort in almost all areas of knowledge. It becomes clearer that observations and data alone may not be enough even in the age of big data. For instance, sequential decision making systems which learn from observed human behavior may suffer from the effects of systematic noise, or the ones that learn from partially observable world models do not have access to all of the features that can fully represent the state of the world. Prediction systems that learn from structured representations of objects and interactions suffer from the implicit statistical skew in the data--resulting in suboptimal hypotheses. Problem-solving and planning systems suffer from asymmetry of capabilities: an autonomous planning agent planning for a fire rescue scenario may have building and city schematics and vast computational power, but it may not know how to prioritize different tasks: does it save a survivor or put the flames out? Experts may implicitly understand these things through their years of experience; we want to leverage the decades of knowledge assimilated by domain experts for better learning and decision making, therefore our methods attempt to balance between data-driven and knowledge-driven approaches.

Though knowledge-augmented predictive systems are not new, recent years have witnessed a major research thrust in their direction. Our group is an active contributor to this cause, focusing on leveraging expert knowledge in predictive systems from structured noisy data (SRL) in sequential decision making (reinforcement learning) to facilitate learning of optimal behaviors, in systems where better solutions are needed. We build frameworks for various representations and types of expert knowledge/advice/guidance or the real-time elicitation of such knowledge at learning/inference time from potentially many people. We have also shown that successful applications to real-world problems, especially healthcare and finance.

Motivated by our recent DARPA-funded project "Communicating with Computers" we aim to build human-AI collaborative systems where both humans and AI agents will solve problems and learn from one another. Humans will teach new concepts to intelligent agents, the agents will seek guidance when they are unsure, then both will grow to augment one another.
